

                            BTIDriver RPC Libraries
                  USING THE BTICard DRIVER API AND EXAMPLES

              Copyright 2004-2009 by Ballard Technology, Inc.


                                ------------


          This folder contains the following files:

          File Name                 Description

          bticard_find.c   Find BTIDriver RPC cards
          bticard_test.c   Test BTIDriver cards
          examp1.c         Example 1: Report BTIDriver devices
          examp2.c         Example 2: Toggling LED and DIO
          examp3.c         Example 3: Monitoring DIO

          Makefile         GNU Makefile for examples

          README           This document

          Refer to the end of this document for corrections,
          warnings, and additional information.



     INTRODUCTION

          The BTICard.h and libbtiCard.so files are the C
          language header and shared library for the BTICard
          Driver API.  The RPC mode driver is dependent on
          the BTIRPC library.  With these files, the user can
          write applications that operate a BTIDriver
          compliant device.

          The Driver API has been tested using GCC 3.3.1.

          The examples files are written in C and have been
          tested using GCC 3.3.1.



     MAKEFILE

          All the example programs can be made by simply
          running the 'make' command.

          To remove the built example programs, run the
          'make clean' command.



     BTICard.h

          Applications written in the C language
          that use the BTICard Driver API library must
          incorporate the header file BTICard.h using the
          #include preprocessor directive.  Assuming the
          header file is in the current working directory or
          in the INCLUDE path, the following line must be
          added to the top of the application's source file:

          #include "BTICard.h"



     EXAMPLE PROGRAMS

          Examples are provided both in C source code files
          and the resultant executable format for the different
          architectures.



     FUNCTION OVERVIEW

          Functions are described in detail in the
          Ballard Technology API Reference Manuals for
          the individual protocols.



     CORRECTIONS, WARNINGS, AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

          There is no additional information.


                                ------------


          SAFETY WARNING:  Ballard products are of commercial
          grade and therefore are neither designed,
          manufactured, nor tested to standards required for
          use in critical applications where a failure or
          deficiency of the product may lead to injury,
          death, or damage to property.  Without prior
          specific approval in writing by the president of
          Ballard Technology, Inc., Ballard products are not
          authorized for use in such critical applications.

          This software is provided as a laboratory tool.
          For any application it is the responsibility of the
          user to verify the suitability, correctness, and
          safety of using this software or data derived
          therefrom.


                                ------------


     Ballard Technology would appreciate hearing your questions,
     comments, and suggestions concerning this product.

     Ballard Technology, Inc.
     www.ballardtech.com
     support@ballardtech.com
