

                            BTIDriver RPC Libraries
                                  for Linux

                               October 23, 2009

                Copyright 2004-2009 by Ballard Technology, Inc.


                                ------------


          This folder contains the following subfolders:

          Folder Name               Description

          <API>         Library and header files
          <examples>    Example programs

          LICENSEL.TXT        License agreement for Linux driver software
          README              This document

          Refer to the end of this document for corrections,
          warnings, and additional information.



     INTRODUCTION

          The BTIDriver RPC libraries are the Remote
          Procedure Call libraries that work with Ballard
          Technology's universal driver API.  The RPC
          libraries will operate remotely controlled devices
          such as the OmniBusBox device.  These RPC
          controlled devices are intelligent network
          interfaces that allow users to communicate with
          multiple avionics databuses.  These avionics
          databus interfaces include MIL-STD-1553, ARINC 429,
          ARINC 717, ARINC 708, RS-422, CSDB, Discrete IO and
          others.  The folders listed above contain the
          necessary components for building applications to
          operate an RPC controlled Ballard avionics device.



     USAGE

          To use the Linux drivers for an RPC device (e.g.
          OmniBusBox) you will first need to install the API
          libraries.  Copy the following 32-bit shared object
          libraries to the /usr/lib directory of your
          computer (as root):

          API/libbtirpc-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbtiCard-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbti1553-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbti422-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbti429-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbti708-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbti717-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbtiCSDB-rpc-x86.so
          API/libbtiDIO-rpc-x86.so

          If you are running a 64-bit system, then both
          32-bit and 64-bit applications can use the API
          libraries.  Copy the following shared object
          libraries to the /usr/lib64 directory of your
          computer (as root):

          API/libbtirpc-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbtiCard-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbti1553-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbti422-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbti429-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbti708-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbti717-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbtiCSDB-rpc-x64.so
          API/libbtiDIO-rpc-x64.so

          Additionally, you will need to assign a card number
          to your device.  Card numbers allow the BTIDriver
          library to distinguish between BTIDriver compliant
          devices.  Please copy the example ballard.conf file
          (located in the API directory) to your computer's
          /etc directory.  To obtain the unique
          information needed to add your device to the
          ballard.conf file, run the bticard_find example
          program located in the EXAMPLES directory.

          You are now ready to build and run the example
          programs in the examples folder.



     CORRECTIONS, WARNINGS, AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

          There is no additional information.


                                ------------


          SAFETY WARNING:  Ballard products are of commercial
          grade and therefore are neither designed,
          manufactured, nor tested to standards required for
          use in critical applications where a failure or
          deficiency of the product may lead to injury,
          death, or damage to property.  Without prior
          specific approval in writing by the president of
          Ballard Technology, Inc., Ballard products are not
          authorized for use in such critical applications.

          This software is provided as a laboratory tool.
          For any application it is the responsibility of the
          user to verify the suitability, correctness, and
          safety of using this software or data derived
          therefrom.


                                ------------


     Ballard Technology would appreciate hearing your questions,
     comments, and suggestions concerning this product.

     Ballard Technology, Inc.
     www.ballardtech.com
     support@ballardtech.com
